.. _plugins:
.. module:: raider.plugins.common

Plugins
=======

Plugins in **Raider** are pieces of code that are used to get inputs
from, and put them in the HTTP request, and/or to extract some values
from the response. This is used to facilitate the information exchange
between :ref:`Flows <flows>`. Below there's a list of predefined
Plugins. The users are also encouraged to write their own plugins.


Common
------

Plugin
++++++

.. autoclass:: Plugin

Parser
++++++

.. autoclass:: Parser

Processor
+++++++++

.. autoclass:: Processor

Empty
+++++

.. autoclass:: Empty


.. module:: raider.plugins.basic

Basic
-----

.. _plugin_variable:

Variable
++++++++

Use this when the value of the plugin should be extracted from the
user data. At the moment only ``username`` and ``password`` are
working. Future versions will allow adding and accessing arbitrary
data from the users.

Example:

.. code-block:: hylang

   (setv username (Variable "username"))

.. autoclass:: Variable
   :members:	       

.. _plugin_prompt:

Prompt
++++++

Prompt plugin should be used when the information is not known in
advance, for example when receiving the SMS code.

Example:

.. code-block:: hylang

   (setv mfa_code (Prompt "Input code here:"))

.. autoclass:: Prompt
   :members:	       

.. _plugin_cookie:      

Cookie
++++++

Use Cookie plugin to extract and set new cookies:

Example:

.. code-block:: hylang

   (setv session_cookie (Cookie "PHPSESSID"))

.. autoclass:: Cookie
   :members:	       
	       

.. _plugin_header:      

Header
++++++

Use Header plugin to extract and set new headers. It also allows
easier setup for basic and bearer authentication using the provided
classmethods.

Example:

.. code-block:: hylang

   (setv x-header (Header "x-header"))
   (setv y-header (Header "y-header" "y-value"))

   (setv z-header (Header.basicauth "username" "password"))


   (setv access_token
         (Regex
           :name "access_token"
           :regex "\"accessToken\":\"([^\"]+)\""))
      
   (setv z-header (Header.bearerauth access_token))

.. autoclass:: Header
   :members:	       



File
++++

TODO

Example:

.. autoclass:: File
   :members:	       


.. _plugin_command:

Command
+++++++

Use Command plugin if you want to extract information using a shell
command.

Example:

.. code-block:: hylang

   (setv mfa_code (Command
                   :name "otp"
		   :command "pass otp personal/app1"))

.. autoclass:: Command
   :members:	       


.. _plugin_regex:

Regex
+++++

Use Regex plugin if the data you want extracted can be easily
identified with a regular expression. The string matched in between
``(`` and ``)`` will be stored as the plugin's value.

Example:

.. code-block:: hylang
		
   (setv access_token
         (Regex
           :name "access_token"
           :regex "\"accessToken\":\"([^\"]+)\""))


.. autoclass:: Regex
   :members:	       
	       

.. _plugin_html:      

Html
++++

Use the Html plugin when the data you want can be easily extracted by
parsing HTML tags. Create a new plugin by giving it a name, the tag
where the information is located, some attributes to identify whether
the tag is the right one, and the name of the tag attribute you want
to extract. The attributes are created as a dictionary, and its values
can be regular expressions.

Example:

.. code-block:: hylang
		
    (setv csrf_token
          (Html
            :name "csrf_token"
            :tag "input"
            :attributes
            {:name "csrf_token"
             :value "^[0-9a-f]{40}$"
             :type "hidden"}
            :extract "value"))


.. autoclass:: Html
   :members:	       

.. _plugin_json:
      
Json
++++

.. autoclass:: Json
   :members:	       

.. module:: raider.plugins.modifiers


Modifiers
---------

Alter
+++++

.. autoclass:: Alter
   :members:	       

Combine
+++++++

.. autoclass:: Combine
   :members:	       


      
.. module:: raider.plugins.parsers

Parsers
-------

UrlParser
+++++++++

.. autoclass:: UrlParser
   :members:	       
      


.. _plugin_api:

Writing custom plugins
----------------------


In case the existing plugins are not enough, the user can write
their own to add the new functionality. Those new plugins should be
written in the project's configuration directory in a ".hy" file. To
do this, a new class has to be defined, which will inherit from
*Raider*'s Plugin class:


Let's assume we want a new plugin that will use `unix password store
<https://www.passwordstore.org/>`_ to extract the OTP from our website.


.. code-block:: hylang


    (defclass PasswordStore [Plugin]
    ;; Define class PasswordStore which inherits from Plugin

      (defn __init__ [self path]
      ;; Initiatialize the object given the path

        (.__init__ (super)
                   :name path
                   :function (. self run_command)))
      ;; Call the super() class, i.e. Plugin, and give it the
      ;; path as the name identifier, and the function
      ;; self.run_command() as a function to get the value.
      ;;
      ;; We don't need the response nor the user data to use
      ;; this plugin, so no flags will be set.
		   
      (defn run_command [self]
        (import os)
	;; We need os.popen() to run the command
	
        (setv self.value
              ((. ((. (os.popen
                        (+ "pass otp " self.path))
                      read))
                  strip)))
	;; set self.value to the output from "pass otp",
	;; with the newline stripped.
	
        (return self.value)))


And we can create a new variable that will use this class:

.. code-block:: hylang

    (setv mfa_code (PasswordStore "personal/reddit"))


Now whenever we use the ``mfa_code`` in our requests, its value will
be extracted from the password store.


      
